70%.
So 2/3 analysts said there was a
recession.
the recession.
The whole market has been waiting for
But we know what happened.
all.
There is no recession, and at the moment
expectations are not in recession at
Very different from Europe, in Europe.
individual electorate fighters, is
talking about 0.3% this year.
Even the German government, which makes
election campaign especially the
more hopeful statements now in the
and Austria.
We have had two years of negative
growth, as it is so beautiful in Germany
average of up to 3% economic growth.
And you can see how America has
essentially abandoned Europe with an
And so it should continue in the future
with a tenfold increase in Central
European growth rates.
is up to 3% over the last quarter.
We have a growth rate of perhaps 0.23%,
and in America we have 2.82 0.4, which
So that means America has a real one,
it is above all a person, and this is
Donald Trump.
it's an economic locomotive and behind
Perhaps a comment on this picture.
Chinese one, that of yesterday's Alibaba
This has been done with the greatest
Aiquen 2:00 null.
threat to the US economy, namely from a
Max takes such pictures within ten
seconds.
I was able to generate this by entering
economic locomotives USA and Trump.
So you have to say, in the last few days
form that we might come up with later,
the market has been quite confused in a
which is quite dramatic.
But one thing has to be said If Europe
Argentina's fate flourishing.
grows by only 1% less, then we can have
person, was clearly ahead of Germany.
Because 100 years ago Argentina, which
affected purchasing power or GDP per
100 years ago, Germany did not go well
countries in the world.
and Argentina was one of the richest
With one comparable to Canada with
Australia.
Comparable.
growth between Germany and Argentina.
Was Argentina really the golden years
100 years ago and to this day there is
only a 0.8% difference in economic
was only a less than 1% 0.8% economic
growth over 100 years.
And today we have four times as much GDP
per capita in Germany and the difference
This means that if Europe grows so much
more slowly than America and over a
very, very long period of time, then
currently doing things with the chainsaw
perhaps we will also Mr Millet, who is
think possible.
in Argentina that you really didn't
And where in America the first ones are
limit.
But they are also urgently needed
government spending and similar things,
already coming forward, Mr. Elon Musk,
who wants to copy this by reducing
because, if you're honest in the United
States with a 6.5 % deficit, we are
clearly above any Maastricht or similar
high.
And the US debt is already very, very
So the core question is economic
locomotive, does Europe pull out?
Wolfgang, what would you say that I
sappy In Greek mythology Europe once
rode on the white bull.
might be able to put it a little bit
I hope we're not the cow on the tracks.
When the American economic locomotive is
rolled up, Mr. Jauch rolls over.
Where is Europe?
Not really given yet.
historical range of returns.
Corporate bonds and investment grades
gray-shuffled area you see is the
Emerging Markets Bonds and the
The gray bar in about the middle or
average of these returns.
And this.
This red diamond you see here is the
current yield in each bond category.
Where it's warm and you don't slip out.
investment.
And there's a number one rule of
investment.
If you don't remember anything about the
The one rule you need to remember.
Because this is the basic rule and that
means nothing else If you scatter well,
it does not slip out.
This means that if you leave the house
don't stay at home with a perhaps more
or less non-interested account.
and only then, come on and move and just
Once you move out of the house as soon
fluctuate.
as they move to markets, it will
But in order not to cause these
fluctuations to slip, they must scatter.
And I've set an example here.
Usually you scatter stocks and bonds.
I just broke a lance for the bonds right
now.
So now, for example, if you have a
fact, these are the risks that each
shares and 60% bonds, that's our In
individual title has in this portfolio.
medium risk portfolio with only 40%
And here you see, the blue line is all
risks that are in stock in bonds.
in stock.
And the red line is all risks that are
 steigt , der andere fällt zum selben Zeitpunkt .
 mir mein Risiko selbst definieren kann .
 Bonds in the housing bond are, so that one gets a coupon of 2.75% approximately or a return on ten years.
 But the joke with the housing bond is that it's tax-free, so no Kest on it for Austrian private investor arises.
 And it can be compared with a 3.8% return, so to speak, before Kest.
 And then we are already in a portfolio that is quite attractive.
 And there comes the advantage of Bank Burgenland in its size, in its strength that lays such housing bonds and there we always have a current one, which we so to speak with the one you can get in with.
 So I have already answered the two customer questions.
 Wonderful. You have already said a lot about market capitalisation, in the case of an individual company.
 We have seen that in recent years the stock markets have been developing through Big Seven, where Nvidia was also a part of the S&P 500.
 So where there is a lot of light, there's also plenty of shadow.
 As we have seen, this is not a big risk.
 You've already said a lot about it. Perhaps you can go back to that.
 Mr Malberg. There, perhaps? Excuse me. Yes, the question was prepared for him.
 Yeah, I could have said something. Yes, our faithful viewers may already know this graphic.
 And yet they may allow us to show it again.
 The MSCI World, which is the world's most widely distributed stock index, has 27% invested exclusively in ten companies.
 And that is of course a danger, and we saw it on Monday this week.
 So you see, it was really an exciting week and that's enough.
 This was not the bankruptcy of a large investment bank in New York, but it was a small app that this price loss, because suddenly growth expectations were simply no longer plausible.
 When we prepared the slides, we didn't know she was coming.
 Yes, record ratings, sluggish economic development and high interest rates.
