Congratulations.
And then there were 22 federal elections, the elections to the European Parliament and the National Council elections, where we.
I can say that we were 7% above the national average in the National Council election in the European elections.
Comrades. Welcome to our third Vienna Conference. You may remember, we have the first one.
Comrades. Welcome to our third Vienna Conference. You can remember, we did the first Vienna conference on democracy, the second on education and the third on the economy.
And uh, I would like to thank Doctor Elisabeth Springer very much for this introduction, which made it clear how important it is that we as Social Democrats deal with this topic particularly intensively in times like these. And it is clear.
Become. Also in this lecture. How important the Social Democratic signature will be in Vienna as a business location. It therefore offers me 2 possibilities at this Vienna conference, on the one hand, that we deepen this topic.
And that has.
In the run-up to the event, 8 impulse events were held in Vienna on the 8 topics that also make up the Economic Compass that you have at your disposal.
In contrast to the state party congress, we always want to use the Vienna conferences more intensively to prepare content, and we have also succeeded in the run-up to the conference. I would also like to thank everyone who contributed, it was very intensive discussions, but I think we have made a difference with this.
Compass has created a good basis for continuing this discussion with the Economic Compass. I would like to thank everyone who participated, on behalf of you, dear Jörg Neumeier, this is your first major Viennese conference and the fact that you were so actively involved in the run-up to the conference was great, thank you and the whole team for the preparation of this conference.
Yes, being a state party secretary is not an easy squat, who knows that better than Barbara Nowak.
But it hasn't really improved in terms of the intensity of its work.
I believe that especially in these times, the function of the City Councillor for Finance and Economic Affairs is a particularly intense one. I am pleased, dear Barbara, that you have taken on this function and I believe that this is a clear sign that we also want to make economic policy with a Social Democratic signature. All the best, dear Mr. Barbara.
And that?
Barbara took over the function because Peter Hanke moved into the federal government. Dear Peter, It is good to know that we have people in the Federal Government.
Do they know the course of history well, know how important the city of Vienna is for the federal whole and I am pleased that you are with us today and Corina, who has known Vienna very well for a long time as chairwoman of the Bundesrat parliamentary group. Welcome to you two from the.
Federal Government and still very closely connected.
Dear comrades, we have had intensive months. I mention it at every opportunity, because it is so easy to forget that we have a real election marathon behind us.
With different results. But it has essentially begun, this election marathon with a great success in the Chamber of Labour election Dear Renate, I will not get tired of always mentioning what a great success that was against 15 other parliamentary groups.
Dear Renate Arnold.
The and your team in the FSG in the Chamber of Labour. Great.
And because it was such a run, Christian Meidlinger got the best result. In the elections for the staff representatives, trade unionists.
The municipality of Vienna, dear Christian, was a historic success. Congratulations.
And then there were 22 federal elections, the elections to the European Parliament and the National Council elections, where we.
I can say that we were 7% above the national average in the European elections, 10% above the national average in the National Council elections, and we were the only federal state with an SPÖ in the National Council elections.
majority. I think the federal party also knows what it has in the SP Vienna. We are not only the economic engine, but also the political engine in our country and that will certainly remain the case.
And that was a good prelude for the municipal council and district representation elections. And I can proudly say.
Uh, we achieved a very good result in the municipal elections in all 23 Viennese districts for the first time in 30 years an SPÖ majority in the municipal elections in all 23 Viennese districts, that has not happened for 30 years, that is a great joint success.
There are many reasons for this, of course our content-related orientation, also the people who have been candidates. But above all, it is also the strong cohesion that makes the SPÖ Vienna, and I believe that other parts of the party as a whole can only learn from this, and you know, I never talk about other federal states, other cities or municipalities.
But what is the point of the SPÖ in Austria's second largest city, the top candidate once again cutting jobs to 73%? So the meaning? Someone has to explain to me, just before an election.
So I think it's necessary for us to have internal discussions, including tough discussions about content.
That's why we hold conferences of this kind and the exclusion of the media. And I think it's good and being discussed is a sign of liveliness.
But I think we should agree that if we trust people, we will also support them externally. That is true, I think.
For all parts of the party, because we will only win together.
Or is it?
dimension and I'll tell you honestly, I'm for winners.
And.
And they know how it is now. I want to be asked all the time, journalists, journalists, what I say to this or that person within Social Democracy. And I always say, people really have other worries, you won't seriously believe, you know it.
He says it to the journalists that the people in the population take a special interest in who takes on which function in our country. They want to know how we solve the major challenges politically, they want to know how we can deal with the current situation.
Avoiding the inflation mentioned by Doctor Springer, as we are dealing with rising unemployment, these are things where we are called upon now.
Are really challenged. They will then talk about the fact that it is really a big challenge that will captivate us all, in a very strong way, but these are things we should concentrate on.
The fact that we are still able to achieve great international prestige has already been cited. In many international rankings. I wouldn't repeat it at all, but that others also make their choice so that they say.
There are so many positive things in Vienna.
The mayor of Hamburg has already won his election there. With housing construction in Vienna and now the new mayor of New York, Mandani, who says in all interviews that he would like to have a residential building like in Vienna.
And from that point of view, we can be proud to say that we are an international role model in many areas. Old Town Vienna.
Why?
Because we have 100 years of tradition of social democratic tradition. If you exclude the time of the two fascisms.
100 years, and that ensures that we can also make appropriate political decisions for people in all life situations that are necessary. This will continue to apply to residential construction as well.
I was in Brussels last week and was allowed to present the Viennese housing model. I would also like to thank comrade Andi Schieder for the really good cooperation, because now all the institutions of the European Union are finally realising how important it is to work together.
To deal with this housing issue. And for the first time, at the suggestion of the SP Vienna, there will be a separate EU Commissioner who will deal not only with energy, but also with housing. In the future, the one in December.
One day after this is decided, comes to us in Vienna in the EU. This is no coincidence, but is a clear sign that we are on the right track with our policy for the people in our city, but that we are also an international role model in so many areas.
And that's thanks to you.
And it is also a sign that it does not matter who governs. And that we have 220,000 municipal apartments. 200,000 rental and cooperative apartments subsidized by the City of Vienna, very often owned by trade unions.
Is a visible sign of this policy and a few days ago we named a municipal building after Rudi Hunsdorfer in the sixth district as a sign of solidarity with a special personality of social democracy and the trade union movement.
But also in the sixth district, where there is not much building land now, as a sign that we want to achieve a social and functional mix in the future and that we will not stand still.
With the historical achievements, that we do not continue to rest on our laurels, but that we set further accents. And you can remember, we have enforced that in the future with every rededication.
Mandatory. 2 thirds of all new apartments must be subsidized so that they must be affordable, which does not exist anywhere in the world. And for the reason, if this seems like a proposal there in other cities they look incredulous that this at all.
It is possible.
And therefore rightly written in the Falter.
The city of Vienna is the capital of democratic socialism.
What I like this accusation, because it is a policy for the people. And that's a good thing. And therefore, love great and enjoyed.
And that is why I will continue to advocate in the future that we not only maintain this stock, but also expand it further, and that we ensure that there is no sale of municipal housing, as is already being proposed again by some conservatives.
That will.
And then not give it to the mayor Michael Ludwig.
But it will also be necessary for us to have a strong economy, and I am pleased that the Chamber of Commerce election also ended in such a way that the Social Democratic Business Association was able to strengthen itself. Congratulations very much and above all because that's what it's all about.
To support a personal enterprise. The Social Democratic Business Association does not primarily stand for large international corporations, but it primarily stands for a partnership.
The small and medium-sized enterprises, which also make up the backbone of our economy, in the city. And that's why it was a great success and also shows how important it is to take care of the weak female entrepreneurs.
Also as Otto Bauer has always seen it, as a combination.
In cooperation with employees and small farmers, who also exist here, in Vienna, but above all with small entrepreneurs and companies, which often have an even harder time than some employees. And we must continue to live these alliances in the future, dear comrades, therefore.
As a result, we now have major challenges, especially in the budgetary area. It's no secret, it's in the newspaper every day.
Yesterday I also phoned my comrade Matterbauer. He asked me to go down this path of consolidation together, and we are doing that. In principle, we are a very.
Loyal national organization.
But I say that we also have to see that the relationship between the federal government, the states and the municipalities in terms of financing is such that more and more tasks have been taken over by the states and municipalities. And when I then go into the.
Newspaper articles show that the federal government has mastered its budgetary challenges, but the states are still lagging behind. Then we have to draw attention to this imbalance, so we will certainly represent Vienna's interests in the coming days and weeks in a spirit of solidarity, friendship, but still very specific interests, because.
The federal government has very unilaterally set percentages that must be adhered to, also in the consolidation of the budget.
Is where the states, including us in Vienna, have strong concerns. And we will also bring these concerns to the table in a solidary manner, not via the media, but internally, so that we can protect the interests of the Viennese population accordingly.
To be able to represent, because it's not about budget figures.
Rather, it has an impact in all areas, in the health sector, in the social sector, also in investments. And if the states and municipalities are deprived of the opportunity, then it will have an impact on the economy and the labour market.
And on the social conditions of the people. And we will certainly discuss this in a very friendly but also friendly way in the coming days and weeks. And that is also our task, that we work in the interests of the Viennese population.
Are active.
But in principle, it is important that we stand together in difficult times and support this coalition at the federal level. Because what is the alternative?
And you know, it was already pointed. At the beginning of the year, that there is a coalition consisting of the FPÖ and ÖVP. That would be the first time that there had also been a chancellor of the FPÖ, with Herbert Kickl still a particularly right-wing politician figure.
And I don't want to hide the fact that I worked very hard to ensure that there was another attempt to bring about this three-party coalition, knowing that we have great political difficulties. We have a lot to explain that this federal government has to implement.
And why does it have to implement it? Because the last federal government, consisting of the ÖVP and the Greens, left behind a budget that needs to be restructured now.
Finance Minister Brunner at the top, but also the Greens, must not be released from responsibility. And if proposals are now coming, also from these parties, also from the Greens, about what should not be done, then you have to say that a lot of things just don't work because of that.
Because they left us this budget.
At the federal level with effects on states and municipalities. And from this point of view, the revenue shares that we have to a lesser extent due to this budget policy of the last federal government are something that also affects us massively in Vienna.
The abolition of cold progression, which has mainly supported higher earners, will cost us one billion euros in Vienna alone. In the current legislative period, one billion euros. I don't need to say what you could do with a billion euros.
And from there.
We have to keep pointing out who is also responsible for these challenges that we now have in order to consolidate the budget, and that it is important. And it was mentioned by Doctor Springler that we also need economic growth in order to strengthen the labour market.
Also to stabilize, because we have.
A better situation.
In employment in Vienna than in other provinces. But it is also increasing here.
Unemployment, and this is something that also worries me very much and which is also about how we can take measures against it. Therefore, it must be ensured that despite all the consolidation challenges.
To be able to guarantee affordable housing in the future, to guarantee the best health care, the best education in all areas from kindergarten to schools to the dual training system. That we remain an equal city.
And that we also remain a social city with all the issues that we still have to deal with. And that is why it will be important that we also strengthen the economy, but that we do business with attitude, that is, that we associate the economy with social justice.
We have instruments that do not exist in other federal states in the same way as the Waff, for example the Vienna Employee Promotion Fund, which, together with the AMS Vienna, implements a whole series of support measures that do not exist elsewhere. And we have now decided to open more.
To form instruments that are there for special groups of people, for example for women. Because we looked at each other. Almost half of all women in the labour market have only completed compulsory schooling.
Must. And they are women who are often very committed, but have difficult conditions.
And we have now launched a women's employment foundation, initially for 100 women, for 1.7 million we have set the budget and we have now presented the first 3 women to the media.
It was touching, 2 of the 3 women are single parents, one was employed in the restaurant. As an assistant, now wants to be trained as a kindergarten and after-school care assistant, the other 44 was in trade as an assistant, wants to become a web designer and the third 31 years old is a Syrian refugee with 3 children and wants to work as.
Unskilled saleswoman to be trained in the direction of a payroll accounting.
Great, I can say, we need qualified specialists and we are the city of women and will express this in all areas.
And I am in close contact with the business community to say that there must also be more full-time jobs, because I find it hypocritical how some representatives of the economy do not say that people are doing so well.
Yes, they are just doing more part-time work. Yes, you have to look at the range of jobs on the job market, because there are simply many offers that only work part-time.
Dealing with it and this affects women in particular, but it affects women in terms of pay in their jobs even more so with effects in retirement. So from that point of view, we will push very hard that women also have the opportunity to decide.
They would have to decide for themselves whether they work part-time or full-time. And there is the best prevention and the best support that we can offer in the education system. It was mentioned that we have had the free kindergarten as the only one for over 15 years.
The federal state introduced free all-day school in 2020 and these are framework conditions that enable women in the first place, also enable men, but mainly women, to decide whether they are working and if so, how is the compatibility?
Work and family is something very important and we want to continue to promote that. Dear comrades.
We are the youngest federal state, that was not always the case. I can still remember well, until well into the 70s we were the oldest federal state on average, we are now the youngest, which is also good for demographic development.
If.
The so-called baby boomer generation is retiring and currently fewer descendants. That we can fill it up accordingly and therefore it is important that we make sure that the young people also receive appropriate training.
Come, and I would like to thank the youth organisations in particular, with whom I have often and much discussed, what we can do, regardless of whether it is the EC, which is the VSSTÖ here, but also, above all, the trade union youth.
And the fact that we have said that we need a job offensive is what we are doing. And we have now decided that we will take over the wage costs for 4 months and that this will be cooperation between WAF, AMS and also the Viennese economy.
To reach all young people who have been unemployed for 6 months or more. Everyone, i.e. everyone we can reach, who wants to, can be looked after in this job offensive and I think that's a nice signal to Junge.
People, we will not leave you alone and despite all the difficult conditions that you may have personally had in the past or in your immediate environment, we stand by your side and help you with this job offensive.
And I can only appeal to him that even in this difficult phase, and there are now ongoing wage negotiations, we also support our comrades and trade unions, because it is always easy to write.
There should be a responsibility for the state as a whole. The social partnership should support this, and the trade unions should also support it. But that's always popular in the media, when you have to keep it up in your own union, the.
It's not quite so easy for our own members, I say.
And from that point of view, I would really ask you all. This will also be very solidary with the trade unions, because there are often discussions.
About the question of whether, uh, you can negotiate beyond the inflation rate, i.e. wage and salary negotiations. But it is also about other framework conditions, and there is already another intensive discussion about opening hours.
In particular, it has published Sunday openings and a really good survey. That 75% of the entire population is against Sunday opening. 90% say that this should actually continue to be a day for the family, for clubs, for togetherness, 80% say, yes, what would the salespeople do with childcare who do it on Sunday in the vast majority of cases.
And I had it looked at again, how was it with this temporary Sunday opening during the European Football Championship? 2008 you can remember.
Don't know each other, you are very young people. Yes, it was in 2008, but should we know those who look further back into history? There was even a statement from the trade association at the time, it didn't bring anything financially economically and I can only tell you.
Even if that is unpopular. I am against Sunday opening.
Even if I sometimes hear criticism, also from the media.
It is always a matter of consistent commitment to the interests of the population, and we will also need partners in the economy, and not everything is always popular.
But it is necessary that we also define the partners in the economy and also implement concrete projects with them. This also applies to banks and insurance companies, for example. We also have a large part of our urban expansion areas in common.
Processed with banks and insurance companies as well. There are many projects, including infrastructural projects from the Twin City liner, for example, but also transport infrastructure in the health sector. The Therme Wien is one such project in the cultural sector of the film festival. The tennis tournament in the sports sector, many other things, I just want to say that we have to say what our interests are and what will also be necessary, especially in this budgetary situation, forms of financing together.
They also think they are good for the people in our city. And I am convinced that we will succeed in this by also developing new forms of financing for future projects, because we also want to go further in the major targets that we have, for example in the following areas.
On the subject of climate protection.
And we have.
I made a really big hit a few days ago.
A large company, bought in the field of wind power and solar technology with one. Silence has been agreed, so I can't say, but it's an amount where I've already swallowed.
This will not be at the expense of the recipients of the energy, but will be drawn from the stock of energy companies, but will ensure that we can continue to invest more in the field of alternative forms of energy in the future.
And with this decision, we are the largest solar supplier in Austria, the.
The third largest provider of wind power and can ensure that we continue our climate protection program, which has been in place since 1999, so there was no talk that the Greens would be in the city government at some point. Since that time, we have been implementing the climate protection programme in Vienna and we have half the CO 2 emissions per capita.
And we are also there in terms of energy.
A very sharp decline. We have managed to make the decline in energy so strong that we have the same energy, the energy use as.
In 1993, you can see very clearly that our climate protection program is also taking effect and that by getting out of gas we are ensuring that we are not dependent on international energy supplies.
That we can get rid of them. And if you now say, what do we get out of it concretely, what is the point of investing in this area in this way, then you can just say that we are independent of fossil fuels.
Fuels prices will fall in the medium term and we have greater planning security for the economy, but also for households. And that will be very, very important and will justify such investments. But there it is also necessary.
That we invent appropriate forms of financing and there in response to a journalist's question as to whether we.
Due to the budgetary situation, I was able to say with peace of mind that we would reduce our climate protection measures. No. And if you look at what is happening with the.
At the international climate conference, it is currently taking place how more and more countries can take a step back or revise their targets. We say in Vienna, we will continue on this path without damaging the economy, but completely.
On the contrary, to strengthen the economy and to make investments in the area of Vienna as a business location. And that's important, this connection.
Of the economy and climate protection.
And how do we explain many of these things in public? It will be necessary that there will also be media in the future.
And.
I don't need to tell anything about media in Austria and not every article that appears where finds my approval. You will probably feel the same way.
Only if you look at what's going on in the so-called social media, where fake news simply rains down on people without filtering, what effects it has when you discuss with people.
Who are constantly thinking about things where you think. That's unbelievable, that's the way it is, conspiracy theories are credible at all, but still reach parts of the population, then we will have to say.
Media in Austria need us and you need our support. They are part of a democratic process and not everything I like.
Should be missing. It is important for a democracy that there are different points of view and that they can be discussed. And if the traditional media disappear, then it will become more influence.
It of other countries give via social media. We are already seeing this in election campaigns, even in European countries such as Russia, which are also trying to influence election results with chatbots.
It's not that traditional media don't do that, but it's more transparent, more comprehensible and part of a democratic process. That's why we created the media initiative in Vienna, in order to especially.
To strengthen the quality of the media, especially to strengthen journalists who also do this work, a total of 2000 journalists' jobs have been cut in the last 20 years.
In the last 20 years, there have been 2000 fewer journalists, so it will be necessary for us to continue this media initiative. And I have also proposed that we tie this media initiative for 600000€ above all to the fact that in the future more women are also anchored in leading positions in the media world, that there is a women's bonus of.
5000€ these functions will be increasingly supported.
And that journalistic work in particular is financially supported.
And that, in my opinion, in a situation where the media need us strongly, is an opportunity to make it clear that we want to support high-quality journalism above all.
Because I always think it's great when media companies tell us whether we comply with every women's quota in politics. But I think the media will be well advised to take a look at the quota of women in the leading positions of the media companies, and from that point of view, I think we will show.
And we will also support this with the women's bonus. Here, too, we are the city of women.
I would like to come up with two more initiatives that I would also like to introduce next week at the Governors' Conference, namely that we also support brick-and-mortar retail.
And above all, take measures against online retail, which comes from the USA, especially from China, from other Southeast Asian countries, and where there is very strong price dumping and where quality and safety in particular are also affected.
What suffers greatly from this are platforms, where?
The.
Entrepreneurs no longer act as traders, but as intermediaries. And that buyers become importers. They circumvent many legal framework conditions, also by dividing the shipments, so that they remain below the limits, with partial deliveries to save the customs duties and that is duty-free direct shipments and I will also propose a parcel levy to get this under control, because we have to.
Setting accents to also support brick-and-mortar retail.
supports.
Are many jobs well-qualified jobs? So at every opportunity I always say, now also in the run-up to Christmas, so I don't order anything online, I buy all my books in the bookstore, for example, because there are qualified booksellers there who will also be available in the future, Amazon will not be able to do that.
And there are also many other problems associated with it, namely that this lower product quality has an impact on the short service life. That means there is more waste, there is worse.
Uh, uh, quality that is in circulation, uh, impact on the environment through more plastic, for example through these fast fashion products that are in circulation and it will be necessary there, especially and.
Economic policy considerations, labour market policy considerations, but also from the point of view of the environment to take action against implementing more controls in online trade.
As a strengthening for the business location, for local trade, strengthening jobs, but also consumer protection. And I will also bring it up next week at the Governors' Conference, of course also with the request that the Federal Government then adopt the.
Corresponding provisions of federal law. But it is important that we also take care of the Viennese economy, of the jobs in trade, dear.
And perhaps also to another part of the economy that is very underestimated in Vienna, namely industry. We have a strong value creation in industry, even with an upward trend, in Vienna this was +1.4% in 2024 in the Austrian cut water minus 5.5% and we are always among the strongest 3 federal states.
In the field of industry. We just don't have industry with smoking chimneys.
As is perhaps still the case at VOEST, but we have a special focus on life science, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals. All major international pharmaceutical companies.
Uh, some of these companies, such as Boehringer Inglime, for example, research or produce in Vienna, have invested a billion euros, in Meidling, for example.
I read in a newspaper about the center of power in Vienna, Meidling at the moment, because.
Of 5 state party secretaries, 4 are from Meidling.
Therefore.
You can see that there are also strong industrial settlements here in Meidling, as well as in other districts, and that we are particularly important in places where it is also important for people in cancer research.
For example, it is important that we have made a big leap in Vienna, also in the cooperation between these private companies, the City of Vienna, scientific institutions and universities.
And, for example, the hospitals of the WIG EF and the AKH. And that's why these companies are very happy to settle here. But what we need overall, not only in Austria, but in Europe, is that we are very strong in the area of.
Pharmaceutical production makes us independent of international supply chains and we have seen that with Corona, how difficult that is. We have recently seen this again in relation to this.
To medicines that were not in stock, including very important medicines. And that's why it's important that we step up basic research on the one hand, but also speed up the approval procedures. There we have in Austria.
Only limited possibilities, that has to happen at the European level. But the fact that we are also accelerating approval, it is also much faster in competition with other parts of the world in the USA, and that is also a decision.
The pharmaceutical companies settle here and that we also take initiatives in the area of training in order to specifically recruit appropriate employees and colleagues for these companies as well.
Also to train, and this is the strength of our city, namely that we act in a social partnership and that we also involve the scientific university institutions in particular.
We are the second largest city in the German-speaking world. However, we are the most important university city with 200,000 students.
This means that 10% of the entire Viennese population are students and therefore this is important for these companies, just like our dual training system. Therefore, it is important that we.
Uh, also continue to expand the inter-company training workshops, but also keep at it that the private companies train more.
Because there are so many young people in the inter-company training workshop because fewer and fewer companies offer qualified apprenticeships. So we have to keep at it, together we in Vienna, in the city of Vienna, have taken responsibility.
Then we have increased the proportion of apprentices in all the professions that we offer as the City of Vienna, and we will continue to do so.
Love.
I am already coming to the end and I can only ask you that we stand together in this difficult phase, I have mentioned it several times and the consolidation of the budget is a difficult phase. You always have to keep in mind what the alternative is, and when I hear some in the party say, well, we shouldn't have joined the federal government at all, then I can still say that it's automatically a yes to a Chancellor Kickl.
You just have to know that and I think I can convey well that I am interested in historical processes and I tell you in the first republic.
In the first republic, democracy was not eliminated by storming parliament. That was only the end, the beginning was the financial hollowing out of the cities.
The financial erosion of red Vienna, that was the beginning, that was the beginning, and in this situation we must never come. We must always be independent of the influence of other local authorities, other parties.
Because I know nothing would interest the other parties more than a political change in Red Vienna. And I always say red Vienna, because we already had 3 coalitions in the Second Republic, but in reality.
Whatever the car Vienna and the fact that other cities orient themselves towards Vienna, has to do with the fact that we have such a long unbroken tradition and therefore enjoyed and enjoyed love.
That's why we take the national comrades, let's remain the counter-model, let's remain the counter-model to the lack of solidarity.
Against privatization.
Against anti-Semitism and racism, against hatred. Let us remain this counter-model, and we will achieve this together, dear comrades, at most I know cordial friendship, heartfelt happiness.
Thank you very much, Mayor.
Doctor Michael Ludwig, That's your applause.
Together we can do it.
