We in the advisory board asked ourselves the question

uh, we want to look at this again, perhaps a bit provocatively, with the statement that we sometimes perceive in the industry: hey, we want to transform transformation, but how do we do that? And we asked ourselves whether, within the framework of our conference, we should raise the question of whether the industry is currently losing ESG drive, or what opportunities we might have on the panel to ultimately bring some more energy back into it, ultimately with the keyword of motivation. I would like to briefly introduce, to my left, Dr. Bernhard Fron. He is a board member at Bob efficiency Design AG. In short, I think you can always call him Bob. He is a passionate impact entrepreneur. He has been active on our platform for some time now, and I have already been able to make good video statements with him and have also had some good conversations. He has a PhD in the field of photovoltaics. Heike, uh, was your energy efficiency expert and managing director of a consulting firm. He has been with Bob since 2013, so for 11 years now. Their focus was on offices as a kind of serial property, you could almost say, so not just as Buildings, but there's ultimately a bit more to it than that. For me, he's the representative for holistic products here in this panel discussion that we selected from the advisory board. I always perceive him as very highly motivated, so to speak. Um, I'm pleased that you accepted our invitation. Next to the left, so to speak, is Jensum, co-founder and CEO of Predium, who always pursues the goal of offering and implementing sustainable and profitable real estate management and a platform. There are more or less 50 people involved, yes, with you too. Also in the role and actively working every day. For the panel discussion, we in Bayreuth considered that it might be good to include these perspectives from your platform operator's point of view as well. And last but not least, on the far left, Matthias Neumann, himself a graduate mechanical engineer, has been active at paultech since 2023, also responsible for sales topics and, of course, involved in all decisions within the management team. Previously, with the topic of heat pumps, one could say he was very intensively involved in the processes of the company's transformation. We wanted to have someone in the panel who could discuss the topic a bit more. Process implementation ultimately means digitization, to put it bluntly, and I can be a bit harsh in my expression sometimes: take the human element out, put the processes in, and digitize them to some extent.