We once asked ourselves the question in the advisory board.We want to look at this again a bit provocatively with the statement, Hey, we want to transform Transformers, but how do we do that?
And we asked ourselves whether the question should be raised at our conference.Does the industry currently lose out on ESG Drive?
In relation to what possibilities do we perhaps have in the podium?
Since now something ultimately with the keyword of motivation, because maybe a little more strength to bring in again.
I would like to briefly introduce links to my left in first position here Dr. Bernhard Frohn.
He is the Executive Board member at Bop Efficiency Design AG.
In short, I always think you can say well that is a passionate impact entrepreneur.
He has been active on the platform for some time and I was able to make good video statements with him and always have a good conversation.
He did a PhD in the field of photovoltaics, was then energy efficiency expert and managing director of an consulting firm has been at the start since 2013, i.e. now already eleven years with Bob.
Focus Office as a serial real estate maybe you can almost say.
Not just as a building, but there's something more to it.
For me now, in this round of talks that we have chosen from the Advisory Board, he is ultimately the representative for holistic products.
I always perceive them as highly motivated, so to speak.
I'm glad you responded to our invitation.
Next to the left, so to speak.
Is Jens Toom Cofounder and CEO of Pretium, who always pursues the goal of ESG Management and Platform to offer and implement sustainable and profitable real estate management.
50 people are more or less active in your role.
Every day hard work.
For the talk round, we had thought that this is perhaps also good from your platform operator's point of view to include these views.
And last but not least on the far left.
Matthias Neumann, himself a mechanical engineer, has been actively responsible for the sales topics at Paul Tech since 2023 and of course participated in all decisions within the management team.
With the topic of heat pump, one can say that it is also very intensively involved in processes within the company conversion.
We also wanted to have someone in the round who would like to talk about procedural implementation again a bit, ultimately Digitization was said to be so bad and I'm always a bit rough in my way of expression Take out the person.
Put the processes in and digitize them a little bit.