We once asked ourselves the question in the advisory board.
We also want to look at it a bit, also quite provocatively, with the statement as we sometimes perceive it in the industry. Hey, we want to transform Transformer, but how do we do that and we asked ourselves the question of whether we should definitely open up the question at our conference, is the industry losing momentum at the moment or what opportunities do we perhaps have in the podium?
Now something ultimately with the keyword of motivation, maybe to bring a little more strength back into it. I would like to introduce Doctor Bernhard von Kurz to the left to my left as the first position here, he is a board member at Bob Efficiency Design AG, I think you can always say short form well, is a passionate impact entrepreneur, he has been active with us on the platform for some time and I have already been able to do good video settings with him and also a good conversation every now and then.
Lead. He did a doctorate in the field of photovoltaics, then became an energy efficiency expert and managing director of a consultancy.
Company consulting firm has been at the start with Bob since 2013, so now for 11 years, has a focus, a bit of office as series real estate you can almost say, not only as a building, but.
And in the end, there is a little more to it. For me, he is now here in this valley knowledge, which we have selected by the advisory board, ultimately the representative for holistic products, I take it as very highly motivated, so to speak.
Was. I am pleased that they accepted our invitation. Next to the left, so to speak, is Jens Thum Co Found Down CEO of Premium, who always pursues the goal of ESG management and platforms offering and implementing sustainable and also profitable real estate management. 50 titles are more or less yes with you also on the roll and active every day diligent, hardworking.
For the panel discussion.
We in Bayreuth are thinking that it might be good from his platform operator's point of view to incorporate these views as well. And last but not least, on the far left is Matthias Neumann, himself a graduate mechanical engineer.
Since 2023, he has been actively responsible for sales topics at Powell Tech and is of course involved in all decisions in the management team.
I was previously involved with the topic of heat pumps, you can say, very intensively in the processes involved in the company conversion. We would like to have someone in the group who could talk a bit about the topic of procedural implementation.
To ultimately, digitization to put it bluntly and I'm always sometimes a bit crude of my exception, take the person out, put the processes in, digitize them a bit.
That.
