In the advisory board, we asked ourselves the question, we want to look at it a bit more provocatively, with the statement, as we sometimes perceive it in the industry, hey, we want to transform, but how do we do that? And we asked ourselves the question, whether we should open the question in the context of our conference, if the industry is currently losing to ESG Drive, or what possibilities we might have on the podium, to bring in a little more power with the keyword of motivation. I would like to introduce Dr. Bernhard Vroonkurt to my left. He is the chair of the Bob Efficiency Design AG, short form, I think you can always say Bob, is a passionate impact entrepreneur.

He has been active on our platform for some time now and I was able to make good video statements with him and always have a good conversation with him. He did a promotion in the field of photovoltaics, was an energy efficiency expert and managing director of a consulting company, has been with Bob for 11 years since 2013, has a focus, a bit of an office as a series, real estate, you can almost say, not just as a building, but there is ultimately a little more to it. For me, he is now here in this talk round, which we have chosen from the advisory board, ultimately the representative for holistic products.

I always see them as highly motivated, so to speak. I am pleased that you followed our invitation. Next to the left, so to speak, is Jens Thum, co-founder and CEO of Predium, who always pursues the goal of offering and implementing sustainable and profitable real estate management for ESG management and platforms.

More or less, 50 people are also active in your role, working hard every day. For the talk round, we at Bayreuth thought that this was also good from a platform operator's point of view. Perhaps it is also good to include these views.

And last but not least, on the far left, Matthias Neumann, a diploma in mechanical engineering himself, has been active at PaulTech since 2023, also responsible for the sales topics and in the management team, of course, involved in all decisions. Before that, with the topic of heat pumps, you can say that he was very intensive in the processes, in the change of companies. We would like to have someone with us in the round who will talk a little bit about the topic of procedure implementation, ultimately digitization.

I'm always a little derpy in my way of speaking. Take the person out, put the processes in and digitize them a bit.