The economy can solve social and environmental problems through economic activity, not by keeping them separate. That's the core point I see, and it's truly gratifying to see so many people participating who are interested in this topic and want to change their mindset. I'm incredibly happy. On the one hand, we're bringing many stakeholders together. It's consciously in the back of our minds, but raising awareness means speaking it out, and once it's spoken out, it becomes conscious again. So, the diversity of opinions is important because we don't just have private industry here; we have lateral thinkers, we have startups, we have young people, and so on. This is what really makes it possible to transform corporate decision-makers into lateral thinkers and foster networked thinking through the workshops and breakout sessions. I can highly recommend this, especially for people from private industry. It's incredibly enriching. Exciting exchange, exciting people, important topics, circular economy—it's enormously important, and so is the collaboration between different continents and world regions. Yes, it's good to have all the players involved in development financing in Austria and the surrounding area, as well as in developing countries, together again. It's simply good to see everyone together in person again. Looking at European and American countries, they have to manage a transformation from a linear economy to a circular economy, and I personally see great potential in the challenges we see in African countries, such as waste management. They could actually skip this transformation and go directly into a circular economy, thus solving social and environmental problems in harmony. That's what it's really about today: transforming these problems into opportunities, and also social and
And, uh, to actually solve environmental problems in one step, we know that we are under enormous pressure to act. We have to change very, very quickly. For example, in this decade we have to halve global emissions by 2030. Time is really running out. So it's clear that companies have to change. Regulations are also becoming increasingly stringent. But, as I said, we also want to see the transformation positively. That means we move from "must" to "want." That means we companies are looking ahead to new opportunities, to test new business models, and then it's about "can." How can we actually maintain excellence in the whole topic of a sustainable economy? First, how can we become more efficient and effective regarding reporting obligations? So, to truly achieve excellence and sustainability in order to move from individual solutions to a completely new economic order. That's the three-step process: from knowing and wanting to do it. There would be even more coordination between different countries, for example, within the EU. Everyone is still doing their own thing. And if we pooled financing from Germany, Austria, and Scandinavia for individual projects, then we could achieve more. as if everyone were managing their own small portfolio