Economy can also solve social problems and environmental problems by being managed, not that it has to be separate.
This is actually the core that I see and it's really gratifying to see many people who are participating in this issue and have an interest in changing this mindset.
I'm so happy, on the one hand.
We bring together many stakeholders, many different ways of thinking to which you are quite aware in the back of your mind.
But making aware also means speaking.
And as soon as I say it, it'll be conscious again.
The multiplicity of opinions.
'Cause we don't just have the private industry here, we got lateral thinkers, we got start-ups, we got Young people and so on That's what makes it always the potential of corporate decision makers, cross-thinkers, networked thinking.
With the workshops, with breakout sessions which basically can only recommend for people like me from private industry is very, very fertilizing.
Exciting exchange, exciting people, important topics, circular economy. Enormously important.
And cooperation between different continents and regions of the world is also extremely important.
It's good to have all the players who deal with development financing in Austria and the surrounding area once again, together with developing countries.
It's just good to meet everyone in person once again.
If you look at how the European countries and American countries have to get a transformation from linear economy into a circular economy.
And I personally see the great potential, the challenges that we actually see in African countries, waste management etc. actually skip this transformation and go directly into a circular economy and thus actually solve social and environmental problems in harmony and and and and.
And that is actually what this day is about today, turning these problems into opportunities and also solving social and environmental problems in one step.
We know that we have enormous pressure for action.
We have to change very, very quickly.
For example, in this decade we have to halve emissions worldwide by 2030.
Time is really running out.
So it's clear that companies need to change.
The regulatory system is getting stronger and stronger.
As I said, we also want to see the transformation positive.
This means that we must also be very keen on wanting to look ahead with companies new ways of testing new business models.
And then it's about skill.
How we can effectively keep the whole issue of sustainable economy active, but also how to become more efficient and effective in reporting obligations, for example. To really have an excellence in sustainability, just to go from individual island solutions into a completely new economic order is the three-jump from having to want to know.
More coordination would be needed, perhaps from different countries, for example within the EU.
Everyone still cooks their soup.
And if you perhaps bundle funding from Germany and Austria and Scandinavia for individual projects, then you could move more than when everyone manages their own small portfolio.