The economy can also solve social and environmental problems by doing business and not by having to be separate. That's actually the camp that I see and it's really gratifying to see, many people who are participating and are interested in this topic and want to change this mindset. I'm incredibly happy, on the one hand, we bring together many stakeholders, many different different ways of thinking that, as you are well aware, you can think of in the background.
But becoming aware also means speaking out.
Speaking and as soon as I have said it, it becomes conscious again. So the manifold truth of opinions, because we don't just have the private industry here, we have lateral thinkers, we have NGOs, we have start-ups, we have young people and so on that actually also makes the potential of corporate decision-makers, lateral thinkers, networked thinking again and again with the workshops, with the breakout sessions,  which can basically not only be recommended for people who is very, very fruitful for me in private industry.
Exciting exchange, exciting people, important topics, gyroscope economy is enormously important and cooperation between different continents and world regions is also enormously important. Yes, it's good to have all the players who deal with development finance in Austria and the surrounding area and developing countries as a whole together. It's just good to meet everyone in person again, if you look at the European countries and American countries, they have to undergo a transformation.
Getting from a linear economy to a circular economy and I personally see that there is great potential, the challenges that we actually see in African countries, in waste management and so on, they can actually skip this transformation and go directly into a circular economy and thus actually solve social and environmental problems in harmony. And that's what it's all about today in this day.
To turn these problems into opportunities and also to actually solve social and environmental problems in one step. We know that we have an enormous pressure to act, we have to change very, very quickly, for example in this decade we have to halve emissions worldwide, by 2030 the time is really running out, so it's clear that companies have to change, the regulation is also getting stronger and stronger, but as I said, we also want to see the transformation positively,  that is, we are moving very strongly from having to want, which means looking ahead with companies.
New opportunities, new business transactions.
To test and then it is a matter of skill, how we can actually apply excellence to the whole topic of the sustainable economy firstly.
But we can also stay active, for example, become more efficient and effective. The fact that the reporting obligations are concerned, i.e. really also having excellence in sustainability, in order to move from individual isolated solutions to a completely new economic order, that is the German leap from knowledge to the new, it would require even more coordination, perhaps of different countries, for example within the EU, everyone still cooks their own soup,  And if you might be in.
Financing from Germany and Austria and it can.
There are bundles for individual projects, then you could move more than if everyone managed their own small portfolio.
