What is the future of the economy? The economy can also solve social and environmental problems in which it is managed, and not that it has to be separate. This is actually the core of what I see, and it is really great to see that many people are taking part and are interested in this topic and want to change this mindset. I am very happy. 

On the one hand, we bring together many stakeholders, many different different ways of thinking, which we are quite aware of in the back of our minds, but what we are aware of today is speaking out. And as soon as we have spoken it out, it becomes conscious again. The diversity of opinions, because we don't just have the private industry here, we have cross-thinkers, we have NGOs, we have start-ups, we have young people and so on.

This actually also creates the potential for corporate, decision-makers, cross-thinkers, to do networked thinking. With the workshops, with the breakout sessions, which I can only recommend for people like me from the private industry, which is very, very fruitful. Exciting exchange, exciting people, important topics, circular economy is enormously important and also the cooperation between different continents, world regions is enormously important.

Yes, it is good when all the players in Austria and the environment deal with development financing and have development countries together. It's just good to meet everyone in person again. If you look at the European countries and American countries, they have to achieve a transformation from a linear economy to a circular economy.

And I personally see the great potential, the challenges that we actually see in African countries, in the waste sector and so on. We can actually skip this transformation and go directly into a circular economy and thus actually solve social and environmental problems in one go. And that's what it's all about today, to turn these problems into opportunities and actually solve social and environmental problems in one step.

We know that we have an enormous pressure to act. We have to change very, very quickly. For example, in this decade we have to halve emissions worldwide by 2030.

The time for this is really running out. So it's clear that companies have to change. The regulatory system is also getting stronger and stronger.

But as I said, we also want to see the transformation in a positive way. That means we go from having to to wanting to. That means looking forward with companies, trying new possibilities, testing new business models.

And then it's about how we can actually keep the whole topic of sustainable economy active in an excellent way. But how we can also become more efficient and more effective, for example, when it comes to reporting duties. So really having an excellence in sustainability, to move from single-island solutions to a completely new economic model.

That's the three-step from having to, to wanting, to being able. It would take even more coordination. Maybe from different countries, for example within the EU.

Everyone is still cooking their own soup. And if you maybe bundle funding from Germany and Austria and Scandinavia for individual projects, then you could move more than if everyone had their own small portfolio of managers.