Dear comrades, welcome to our third conference in Vienna.
You can remember that we made the first Viennese conference on radie theme, the second on education and the third on economics.
And I would like to thank Dr. Elisabeth Springler very much for this introduction, which made it clear that: how important it is that, in times like these as social democracy, we deal with this issue particularly intensively.
And it has also become clear in this lecture how important the social democratic handwriting will be at Vienna as a business location.
It therefore offers me two possibilities at this Vienna conference On the one hand, that we deepen this topic and there have been eight impulse events in advance in Vienna.
On the eight issues that also make up your economic compass.
In contrast to the state party congress, we want to use Vienna conferences more intensively in order to prepare content, even before.
That's what we did.
I would also like to thank all those who have contributed.
It was very intensive discussions, but I think we have created a good basis for continuing this discussion with the compass of economic compass.
I would like to thank all those who have participated, on behalf of you, dear Jörg Neumayer, this is your first major conference in Vienna.
And the fact that you have been so active in advance was great.
You and the whole team already have a thank you for preparing this conference.
Yes, State Party Secretary or secretary is no easy squat, who knows that better than Barbara Nowak, who has not really improved in terms of the intensity of her work.
I think it is precisely in these times that the function of financial and economic stadträtin is particularly intense.
I'm glad, dear Barbara, that you took over this function.
And I believe this is a clear sign that we also want to make economic policy with social democratic handwriting.
Happy birthday, dear Barbara.
And Barbara took over the function because Peter Hanke moved into the federal government. Dear Peter.
It is good to know that we have people in the Federal Government who are well acquainted with the course of history, knowing how important it is for the Federal Chancellery.
And I'm glad you're with us today.
And the Corinna, which has long known as Federal Council leader of Vienna also very well.
Welcome, you two from the federal government.
We are still very closely connected.
Dear comrades, we have been through intense months.
I mention it on every occasion, because you forget so quickly that we have got a real electoral marathon behind us with different results.
But it has essentially begun.
This election marathon with a great success in the Chamber of Labour elections.
Dear Renate, I'm not getting tired of always mentioning what a great success this was against 15 other factions.
Dear Renate, on you and your team in the FSG, in the Chamber of Labour.
And because of this, Christian Meidlinger has won the best result in the elections for staff representatives and trade unionists at Vienna.
Dear Christian, was a historic success.
Congratulations.
And then there were two or two federal elections, the European Parliament elections and the National Council election where we actively participated as SPÖ Wien.
And we were 7% above the federal average in the European elections, 10% over the national election.
In the National Council elections, we were the only federal state with a SPÖ majority.
I believe that the Federal Party also knows what it has in Vienna SPÖ.
We are not only an economic engine, but also the political motor in our country.
And that will certainly remain so.
And that was a good prelude for the municipal council and district representation election.
And I can say proudly We have achieved a very good result in the municipal council election in all 23 Vienna districts For the first time since 30 years, a SPÖ majority in all 23 districts of Vienna was elected to the municipal council.
That didn't happen for 30 years.
This is a great joint success.
There are many reasons.
Of course, our content orientation.
Even the people who ran.
But it is above all also the strong cohesion that makes up SPÖ Vienna.
And I think that other parts of the party can only learn.
And you know she never talks about other federal states, other cities or communities.
But what sense does the top candidate in Austria's second-largest city within the SPÖ have to drop down again to 73%?
So I need someone to explain the meaning.
Just before an election.
So I think it is necessary for us to have internal discussions, including substantive and hard discussions.
That is why we are also making conferences of this kind, excluding the media.
And I think it's good to be discussed, that is a sign of liveliness.
But I think we should agree that if we trust people, then we will support them.
That applies, I think, to all parts of the party.
Because we will only win or lose together.
And I'm telling you honestly, I am for winning and.
And you know what it's like now.
I am constantly being asked, even as journalists, what I say to this or that person within Social Democracy.
And I always say people have real other worries.
I won't seriously believe her.
You know.
But I say this to the journalists that people in the population take a special part in who is playing our role.
They want to know how we can solve the big challenges politically.
They want to know how we deal with the inflation now raised by Dr Springer, and how we are dealing with rising unemployment.
These are things that we have been asked to do.
They will come to the conclusion that this is really a great challenge, which will captivate us all in a very strong way.
But these are things we're supposed to focus on.
However, we are still able to achieve a great international reputation, which has already been cited in many international rankings.
I wouldn't repeat it at all, but the other one is also doing its election successes that they say there are so many positive things. in Vienna, since already the Hamburg mayor won his election with housing construction in Vienna and now the new Mayor of New York.
Mandani, who says in an interview that he would like to have a residential building as well as Vienna.
And so we can be proud, say We are an international model in many areas. Old City Vienna. And why?
Because we're 100 years of tradition.
Social-Democrat tradition, if you take the time on both fascisms, have 100 years.
And this ensures that we can also make appropriate political decisions for people in all situations of life which are necessary.
This will continue to apply for residential construction.
I was in Brussels last week and presented the Viennese housing model.
Thanks also to comrade Andy Schieder for the really good cooperation.
For now, all the institutions of the European Union are finally realizing how important it is to deal with this housing issue.
And there is also for the first time, at the suggestion of SPÖ Wien, a separate EU Commissioner who will be working not only on energy but also on housing in future.
In December, one day after this is decided, we will be coming to Vienna in the EU.
This is no coincidence, but a clear sign that we are right with our policies for the people of our city.
But that we are also an international model for so many topics.
And that's thanks to you.
And is also a sign that it doesn't matter who rules.
And this will have 220,000 community apartments, 200,000 rents funded by the City of Vienna and Cooperative housing, often owned by trade unions too, is a visible sign of this policy.
And a few days ago we named a community building after Rudi Hundstorfer, in the sixth district as a sign of attachment to a special personality of social democracy and trade union movement.
But also in the sixth district, where there is not much building land now, as a sign that we want to achieve social and functional mixing in future too. that we do not stop at the historical achievements, that we don't continue to rest on laurels, but rather that we set further accents.
And you can remember that in the future, 2/3 of all new apartments will have to be funded with commitment for each re-deployment so as to be affordable.
There's no such thing around the world.
And for that reason.
If that's a suggestion of the.
In other cities, they see unbelievingly that this is even possible.
And therefore the Armin Thurnher correctly wrote in the butterfly.
The city of Vienna is the capital of democratic socialism.
I don't like that accusation.
Because it's a policy for people.
And that's a good thing!
And therefore, dear comrades.
And so I will continue to advocate that we not only maintain this stock, but also expand it further and that we ensure that there is no sale of municipal buildings, as some Conservatives have already proposed.
This is not going to happen under Mayor Michael Ludwig.
But it will also be necessary for us to have a strong economy.
And I am pleased that the economic chamber election also took place in such a way that the Social Democratic Economic Association was able to strengthen itself.
Congratulations very warmly and above all, because it is about supporting a person's business.
The Social-Democrats' Association does not primarily represent large international corporations, but it stands for People companies, for the small and medium-sized enterprises that make up the backbone of our economy in town.
And therefore this was also a nice success and shows how important it is to take care of the weak entrepreneurs too.
As Otto Bauer has always seen, it is a combination of workers and small farmers who are also involved in In Vienna, but above all also small entrepreneurs who often have it even more difficult than some employees.
And we must continue to live these alliances in the future, dear comrades.
That is why we now have major challenges, especially in the budgetary field.
It's not a secret, it is in the newspaper every day.
I also spoke to Comrade Marterbauer on the phone yesterday.
He asked me to go along with this consolidation path.
That's what we do.
In principle, we are a very loyal country organization.
But I say that one must also see that the relationship between federal, state and local authorities in financing is such a thing that more and more tasks have been taken over by states and municipalities.
And when I read in the newspaper articles that the Federation has mastered its budgetary challenges, but the countries are still hesitant.
Then one must draw attention to these imbalances.
That is why we will certainly be representing Vienna's interests in the coming days and weeks with solidarity, friendly but very determined.
Because the Federation has set very one-sided percentages that must be observed.
Also in the consolidation of the budget, where countries - including us in Vienna - have strong concerns and we will also raise these concerns.
As I said, solidarity.
Not through the media, but internally so that we can represent the interests of Vienna's population accordingly.
It is not about budget figures, but it has implications in all areas of health and social affairs, including investment.
And if the opportunity is taken away from countries and communities, then it has an impact on the economy, the labour market and people's social conditions.
And we will certainly discuss this very friendlyly in the next few days and weeks, but also.
And this is also our task, that we are active in the sense of Vienna's population.
But in principle, it is important that we stand together in difficult times and support this coalition at federal level.
Because what is the alternative?
And you know, it was already Spitz on Button at the beginning of this year that there is a coalition consisting of FPÖ and ÖVP.
It would be the first time that there had also been a Federal Chancellor of the FPÖ, with Herbert Kickl still an especially right-wing politician figure.
And I don't want to hide the fact that I have been very active in ensuring that there has once again been an attempt to To bring about a tripartite coalition, knowing that we will have great political difficulties in explaining much of what this federal government needs to implement.
And why does it have to do that?
Because the last federal government, consisting of public transport and greens, has left behind a budget that needs to be rehabilitated right now.
Finance Minister Brunner at the head, but also the Greens, must not be dismissed from responsibility.
And if now proposals come from these parties, including the Greens, which should not be done everything, then you have to say Much is not possible because they have left us this budget at federal level, with implications for countries and communities.
And from this point of view, the share of earnings that we have to a lesser extent due to this budget policy of the last federal government is something which also hits us quite massively in Vienna.
The abolition of cold progression, which has mainly supported better earners, costs us €1 billion in Vienna alone and € 1 billion in the current legislative period.
I don't need to tell you what we could do with a billion euros.
And from this point of view, it is necessary to repeatedly point out who also bears responsibility for these challenges that we now have in order to consolidate the budget.
And it is important and it has been mentioned by Dr Springler that we also need economic growth to stabilise the labour market.
Because we have a better employment situation in Vienna than in other federal states.
But unemployment is also rising with us.
And that is something which also bothers me a lot, and where it's about how we can take action against it.
It must therefore be ensured that, despite all the consolidation challenges, we can continue to guarantee affordable housing in future. guarantee the best health care, the best education in all areas, from kindergarten to schools to dual training systems.
That we remain an equal city and that we also remain a social city with all the issues we still have to deal with.
And so it will be important that we also strengthen the economy.
However, economy with attitude.
This means connecting the economy with social justice.
We have instruments that do not exist in other federal states.
Like the Waf, for example, the Vienna Workers' Promotion Fund, which together with AMS Wien sets up a whole series of support measures that do not exist elsewhere.
And we have now decided to make further instruments available for special groups of people, such as women.
For we have looked at almost half of all women in the labour market only have compulsory education.
But these are women who are often very committed, but have difficult conditions.
And we have now launched a women's work foundation, 400 women for the time being.
We have set the budget for 1.7 million.
And we have now presented the first three women to the media.
That was touching.
Two of the three women are single-parents.
One was employed in the restaurant, as an assistant, now wants to be trained into a kindergarten and horticultural assistant.
The other, 44, worked in the trade as an assistant, wants to become a web designer.
And the 03. 31 years old, is Syrian refugee with three children and wants to be retrained as an unskilled saleswoman towards a personnel bill.
Great, I can say we need qualified professionals and we are the city of women and will also express this in all areas.
And I am in close contact with the economy too, to say that there must also be more full-time jobs.
Because I find it hypocritical, like some representatives of the economy, not ours, then say people are doing so well.
They only make more part-time work.
You have to look at the offer of jobs on the labour market.
But there are just a lot of offers that only include part-time jobs.
And that's especially true of women.
This affects women in pay, but even more so in their job, then with effects on the pension.
Therefore, we will strongly urge that women also have the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they work part-time or full-time.
And there is the best preparedness and support that we can offer in education.
It has been mentioned that for over 15 years we have introduced the free kindergarten as the only federal state.
Since 2020 the free all-day school.
And these are framework conditions that make it possible for women to decide whether they work and, if so, how.
Reconciling work and family life is something very important, which we will continue to promote.
Dear comrades.
We are the youngest state.
It wasn't always like that, I remember well.
Until well into the 1970s we were the oldest federal state on average.
We're the youngest now.
This is good, also for demographic development.
If the so-called baby boomer generation retires and is currently doing less, we can fill it up accordingly.
And it is therefore important that we see that young people also receive appropriate training.
And there too, and I should like to thank the youth organisations with whom I have often discussed what we can do.
It doesn't matter if this is the marriage it is, but above all the union youth.
That we said we needed a job offensive.
That's what we do.
And we have now established that we will take over the non-wage costs for four months in cooperation between Waff, AMS and Vienna's economy.
We can reach all young people with it.
The six months and longer in unemployment are all.
So everyone we can reach and who wants to do so, can be looked after in this job offensive.
And I think that's a beautiful signal to young people We won't leave you alone.
And despite all the difficult conditions that may have had personally, in the past or immediate environment We stand by your side and also help you with this job offensive.
And I can only appeal that we are also in this difficult phase, and there is ongoing wage negotiations to support our comrades in the trade unions.
It's always easy to write.
There should be a responsibility for the whole state.
This is to support the social partnership, including trade unions.
But that's always popular in the media.
If you have to keep this up, in your own union, with your own members, it's not that easy, I tell you.
And so I would really ask you all to be very supportive of the trade unions.
Because there are often discussions about the question of whether one can negotiate beyond inflation, i.e. wage and salary negotiations.
But it is also about other framework conditions.
And there is now again such an intense discussion about opening hours, especially Sunday openings.
And a really good poll has revealed that 75% of the total population is against Sunday opening.
90% say that should actually continue to be a day.
For the family, for associations, for togetherness.
80% say yes.
What will the sellers do with child care, which in most cases does not exist on Sunday?
And I let you look again How was that at this temporary Sunday opening during the 2008 European Football Championship?
You can remember, you cannot that now all young people.
But in 2008, let's say, the ones who look back on history know.
There was even an explanation from the trade association at that time.
It did nothing financially.
And I can only tell you, even if this is unpopular, I am against the Sunday opening, although sometimes I hear criticism from the media.
It is always about consistent commitment, also for the interests of the population.
We will also need partners in the economy, and that is not always popular.
But it is necessary that we also define the partners in business and implement concrete projects with them.
This also applies, for example, to banks and insurance companies.
We have also handled a large part of our urban expansion areas together with banks and insurance companies.
There are many, including infrastructural projects from Twin City Liner for example but also transport infrastructure in the health sector.
Therme Wien is such a project in the cultural area film festival, the tennis tournament in the sports sector much more.
We must say what our interests are and where they will be necessary. It is precisely in this budgetary situation that we find forms of financing together, which are also good for the people of our city.
And I am convinced that we will succeed by developing new forms of funding for future projects.
After all, we want to continue with the big targets that we have, for example on climate protection.
And we did a really big throw.
A few days ago a large company bought in the field of wind power and solar technology with one.
It's silently agreed, so it can't say, but it is an amount where I have already swallowed.
This is not at the expense of those who receive energy, but it is drawn from the stock of energy companies.
But make sure that we can continue to invest more in the area of alternative forms of energy.
With this decision, we are therefore the largest solar provider in Austria, the third-largest supplier of wind power and can ensure that our climate protection programme has been available since 1999.
So there was no talk for a long time that the Greens will eventually be in the city government.
Since that time, we have been implementing the climate protection programme in Vienna and we have half per capita for CO2 emissions.
And we also have a very strong decline in energy.
We managed to make the decline in energy so strong that we have the same energy, the same use of energy as in 1993.
So you can see quite clearly that our climate protection programme also works and that we are out of gas. make sure that we deliver the dependence on international energy supply, get it out.
And if they say now, what do we have concretely?
What good is it if we invest in this area?
Then you can say that we are independent of fossil fuels.
Prices will fall in the medium term and we have greater planning certainty for the economy, but also for households.
And that will be quite, very important and will justify such investments.
But there it is also necessary that we invent appropriate forms of funding.
And to the question of a journalist whether we are reducing our action in climate protection due to the budgetary situation, I could say no calmly.
And if you look at what is happening at the international climate conference right now, how more and more countries are taking back or revising their specifications, we can say in Vienna, we are consistently going on without damaging the economy, but quite the contrary to strengthen the economy and make investments in the area of business location Vienna.
And that's important, this combination of business and climate protection.
And how do we explain many of these things in public?
There will be a need for media to continue in the future.
And I don't need to talk about media in Austria right now, and not every article that appears will get my approval.
This will probably happen to you in a similar way.
Only if you look at what's going on in the so-called social media, where unfiltered fake news just poke false messages into people, which effects this has when you discuss with people who are constantly thinking about things where you think it's incredible that conspiracy theories at all are credible, but still reach parts of the population, then we will have to say media in Austria needs us and they need our support.
They are part of a democratic process and not everything I like should be missing.
It is important for a democracy that there are different points of view and that this can be discussed.
And if the traditional media disappears, there will be more influence from other countries via social media.
We are already seeing it in electoral campaigns, even in European countries such as Russia with chatbots is also trying to influence election results.
Not that the traditional media would not do, but it is more transparent, comprehensible and part of a democratic process.
That is why we have created the Media Initiative in Vienna to strengthen especially The quality of media.
Above all, to strengthen journalists who also do this work.
Over the last 20 years, a total of 2000 journalists have lost jobs.
In the last 20 years 2000 journalists have been less.
And so it will be necessary for us to continue this media initiative.
And I have also proposed that we commit this media initiative by €600,000 above all to the fact that in future more women will be anchored in leading roles in the media world.
That there is a women's bonus of 5,000 €.
These functions are increasingly supported and especially journalistic work is financially supported.
And that's, I think, in a situation where the media need us strongly, Possibility to make it clear that we want above all to support quality journalism.
I always think it's great when media houses tell us if we respect the women's quota in politics.
But I believe that the media would be well advised to look at women's participation in the leading functions of the media houses.
And so, I think we'll show.
And we will also support this with the women's bonus.
We are the city of women.
I would also like to come up with two initiatives that I intend to bring in next week's conference at the head of state, namely: In particular, measures are being taken against online trade from the United States, especially China and other Southeast Asian countries. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and I hope that he will be able to do so.
They're platforms where they are.
Companies no longer act as traders, but as intermediaries.
And that the buyers become importers.
They deal with many legal frameworks, including by denouncing the programmes that they remain below limits, with partial deliveries in order to avoid customs duties and that there are direct consignments of duty unpaid.
And I will also propose a package levy to get this under control.
Because we have to set accents in order to support stationary trade as well.
There are many jobs, well-qualified jobs.
So on every occasion, I always say before Christmas.
So I don't order anything online.
I buy all my books in the bookstore, for example, because there are qualified booksellers who will continue to exist.
Amazon won't be able to do that.
And there are also many other problems associated with it, namely that this lower product quality has an impact on the low service life.
This means that there is more waste, there is a worse quality in circulation.
Impact on the environment due to more plastic, for example through these fast fashion products that are in circulation.
And it will be necessary, above all in the light of economic policy considerations and labour market policy considerations but also from an environmental point of view to take action against implementing more controls on online trade.
To strengthen the business location, for local trade, to strengthen jobs and also consumer protection.
And I'm gonna bring it to the state governors conference next week.
Of course, also with the request that the Federal Government then implements the corresponding federal legislation.
But it is important that we also take care of the Viennese economy, jobs in trade. Love.
And perhaps to another part of the economy, which is very underestimated in Vienna because industry.
We have strong value added in industry, even with an increasing trend.
In Vienna it was in 2024 plus 1.4% on the Austrian average, which is a minus of 5.5%.
And we always count among the strongest three federal states in industry.
We just don't have industry with smoking vents, as it may still be in the Voest, but we have a particular focus on life science, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals.
All major international pharmaceutical companies are researching and producing in Vienna.
For example, some of these companies such as Boehringer Ingelheim have invested €1 billion.
In Mödling, for example.
I read in a newspaper the power center of Vienna Meidling, currently by five state party secretaries are four from Meidling.
So from this one can see that there are also strong industrial settlements here in Meidling, as well as in other districts fortunately.
And that, especially where it is important for people in cancer research, for example, we need to make a big leap here in Vienna. also in cooperation between these private companies of the City of Vienna, scientific institutions, universities and for example hospitals of VGF and AKH.
And that's why these companies love to settle down with us!
But what we need as a whole, not only in Austria but also in Europe, is that we make ourselves independent of international supply chains very much in the field of pharmaceutical production.
And we saw that at Corona, how difficult it is.
We have seen this again recently with regard to medicines that were not in stock.
Also of very important medicines.
And it is therefore important that we strengthen basic research on the one hand, but also speed up approval procedures.
There are only limited possibilities in Austria.
This must happen at European level, but that we should also speed up authorisation, even in competition with other parts of the world.
In the US, it's much faster.
And this is already a decision of the pharmaceutical companies, here to settle and that we also in the area of Training Set up initiatives in order to train employees and colleagues for these companies.
And this is the strength of our city, because we act in a social partnership and that we also include scientific university institutions.
We are the second largest city in German-speaking countries.
However, we are the most important university city with 200,000 students.
This means that 10% of the total population in Vienna are students.
And that's why this is important for these companies, just like our dual training system.
It is therefore important that we continue to expand the over-company training workshops, but also keep in mind that private companies are training more.
Because there are so many young people in the over-company training workshop, because fewer and less companies offer qualified apprenticeships.
So that's where we have to stay.
We in Vienna, in the city of Vienna have assumed responsibility.
We have increased the proportion of apprentices in all professions we offer as a city of Vienna.
And we will continue to do so, love.
Dear comrades, I come to the end and I can only ask you for us in this difficult phase.
I have mentioned it several times, and consolidating the budget is a difficult phase for us to stand together.
One must always bear in mind What is the alternative?
And even if I hear some in the party who say, well, we wouldn't have been able to I can only say that this is automatically a yes to the Federal Government.
Kickl You just have to know that and, I think I can communicate well that I am interested in historical processes.
And it was almost in the First Republic.
In the First Republic, democracy has not been eliminated by storming Parliament.
That was just the final point.
The beginning was the financial scooping out of the cities, the financial scooping out of red Vienna.
That was the beginning, that was the start.
And we must never get into this situation.
We must always be independent of influences from other local authorities, other parties.
Because I know nothing would interest the other parties more than a political change in red Vienna.
And I always say Red Vienna, because we have already had three coalitions in the Second Republic.
But in reality it was always the red Vienna.
And the fact that other cities are based on Vienna is due to the fact that we have such a long, unbroken tradition.
And therefore, dear comrades.
Therefore, dear comrades, we remain the counter-model.
Let us remain the counter-model of desolidarisation, privatisation, antisemitism and racism, hate.
Let us remain this counter-model and we will do it together, dear comrades, I know that.
Cordial friendship, Happy birthday! Thank you very much!
Mayor Dr. Michael Ludwig, this is your applause.
Together, we can do it.