Congratulations.
And then there were 22 federal elections, the elections to the European Parliament and the National Council elections, where we.
I can say that we were 7% above the national average in the National Council election in the European elections.
Comrades. Welcome to our third Vienna Conference. You may remember, we have the first one.
Comrades. Welcome to our third Vienna Conference. You can remember, we did the first Vienna conference on democracy, the second on education and the third on the economy.
And uh, I would like to thank Doctor Elisabeth Springer very much for this introduction, which made it clear how important it is that we as Social Democrats deal with this topic particularly intensively in times like these. And it is clear.
Become. Also in this lecture. How important the Social Democratic signature will be in Vienna as a business location. It therefore offers me 2 possibilities at this Vienna conference, on the one hand, that we deepen this topic.
And that has.
In the run-up to the event, 8 impulse events were held in Vienna on the 8 topics that also make up the Economic Compass that you have at your disposal.
In contrast to the state party congress, we always want to use the Vienna conferences more intensively to prepare content, and we have also succeeded in the run-up to the conference. I would also like to thank everyone who contributed, it was very intensive discussions, but I think we have made a difference with this.
Compass has created a good basis for continuing this discussion with the Economic Compass. I would like to thank everyone who participated, on behalf of you, dear Jörg Neumeier, this is your first major Viennese conference and the fact that you were so actively involved in the run-up to the conference was great, thank you and the whole team for the preparation of this conference.
Yes, being a state party secretary is not an easy squat, who knows that better than Barbara Nowak.
But it hasn't really improved in terms of the intensity of its work.
I believe that especially in these times, the function of the City Councillor for Finance and Economic Affairs is a particularly intense one. I am pleased, dear Barbara, that you have taken on this function and I believe that this is a clear sign that we also want to make economic policy with a Social Democratic signature. All the best, dear Mr. Barbara.
And that?
Barbara took over the function because Peter Hanke moved into the federal government. Dear Peter, It is good to know that we have people in the Federal Government.
Do they know the course of history well, know how important the city of Vienna is for the federal whole and I am pleased that you are with us today and Corina, who has known Vienna very well for a long time as chairwoman of the Bundesrat parliamentary group. Welcome to you two from the.
Federal Government and still very closely connected.
Dear comrades, we have had intensive months.