Dear comrades, welcome to our third Vienna Conference. As you may remember, we held the first Vienna Conference on the topic of democracy, the second on education and the third on the topic of economy. I would like to thank Dr. Elisabeth Springler for this introduction, which made it clear how important it is that we deal with this topic very intensively in times like these as a social democracy.

It also made it clear in this lecture how important the social democratic handwriting will be at the economic location of Vienna. Therefore, this conference offers me two possibilities. On the one hand, we want to deepen this topic.

In advance, there were eight impulse events in Vienna on the eight topics that make up the economic compass that you see here. On the other hand, we want to take advantage of the Vienna Conferences more intensively, in order to prepare content in advance. This was also successful.

I would also like to thank everyone who took part. These were very intense discussions, but I think we have created a good basis with the economic compass to continue this discussion. I would like to thank everyone who took part, especially you, dear Jörg Neumeyer.

This is your first major conference in Vienna, and the fact that you took part so actively in advance was great. A big thank you to you and the whole team for preparing this conference. The Secretary of the Federal Party is not an easy job.

Who knows that better than Barbara Nowak, who has not really improved in terms of the intensity of her work. I think that in these times the function of finance and economy is particularly intense. I am pleased, dear Barbara, that you have taken over this function.

I think this is a clear sign that we also want to make economic policy with a social democratic handwriting. All the best, dear Barbara. Barbara has taken over the function because Peter Hanke has joined the federal government.

Dear Peter, it is good to know that we have people in the federal government who know the course of history well. They know how important the city of Vienna is for the federal government as a whole. I am pleased that you are with us today, as well as Corinna Lang, who is a member of the Federal Council and is also very familiar with Vienna.

Welcome, both of you from the federal government. We are still very closely connected. Dear comrades, we have had intense months behind us.

I mention this at every opportunity, because one forgets so quickly that we have had a real election marathon behind us. With different results. But in essence, this election marathon began with a great success at the Labor Chamber.

Dear Renate, I will not be tired of mentioning what a great success it was against 15 other factions. Dear Renate Arnold, you and your team in the FSG in the Labor Chamber, great. And because it was such a run, Christian Meidlinger got the best result in the elections for the representatives of staff, representatives of staff, union members in the municipality of Vienna.

Dear Christian, it was a historic success. Congratulations. And then there were two federal elections, the elections to the European Parliament and the national election, where we actively participated as SPW, may I say.

And we were 7% above the federal average at the European election, 10% above the federal average at the national election. At the national election, we were the only federal state with a SPÖ majority. I think the federal party also knows what it has on the SPÖ Vienna.

We are not only the economic engine, but also the political engine in our country. And that will certainly stay that way. And that was a good prelude to the municipal council and district representative election.

And I can proudly say, we have achieved a very good result at the municipal council election. In all 23 municipalities of Vienna, for the first time in 30 years, a SPÖ majority in all 23 municipalities of Vienna. That has not happened in 30 years.

This is a great joint success. This has many reasons. Of course, our contentual orientation, also the people who ran for office.

But above all, it is also the strong cohesion that makes up the SPÖ Vienna. And I think other parts of the party can only learn from that. And you know, you never talk about other federal states, other cities or municipalities.

But what sense does it make in the second largest city in Austria, within the SPÖ, to put the top candidate back on 73 percent? Well, I have to explain that sense to myself just before an election. So I think it is necessary that we have internal discussions. Also internal, also hard discussions.

That's why we also hold conferences of this kind. And the exclusion of the media. And I think it's good when there's a discussion.

This is a sign of vitality. But I think we should agree that we support them from the outside, when we give people the trust they need. I think this applies to all parts of the party.

Because we will only win together or lose together. And I tell you honestly, I'm in favor of winning. And you know how it is now.

I am constantly asked by journalists what I say to this or that person within social democracy. And I always say, people really have other things to worry about. You will not seriously believe, you know, I say this to the journalists, that people in the population take a special part in who takes on which function.

They want to know how we solve the big challenges politically. They want to know how we deal with the inflation mentioned by Dr. Springer. How we deal with increasing unemployment.

These are things where we are challenged. Really challenged. They will come to the point that this is really a big challenge, which will drag us all down.

Still in a very strong way. But these are things we should focus on. We have succeeded in achieving this, but still a great international reputation.

It has now been cited in many international rankings. I would not repeat it. But the other thing, also with their election successes, that they say, there is so much positive in Vienna.

The Hamburg mayor has already won his election with housing in Vienna. And now the new mayor of New York, Mandani, who says in all interviews, he would like to have housing as in Vienna. And from this we can be proud to say, we are an international role model in many areas.

Old Town Vienna. And why? Because we have a 100-year tradition, a social democratic tradition. If you take the time of the two fascists.

100 years. And that ensures that we can make the right political decisions for the people in all life situations that are necessary. This will continue to apply to housing.

I was in Brussels last week and was allowed to present the Vienna housing model. Thank you to Comrade Andi Schieder for the really good cooperation. Because now finally all institutions in the European Union realize how important it is to deal with this housing issue.

And for the first time, also on the suggestion of the SPÖ Vienna, an EU Commissioner who will not only deal with energy, but also with housing in the future, who will come to us in Vienna in December, one day after it is decided in the EU. This is not a coincidence, but is a clear sign that we are doing the right thing with our policy for the people in our city, that we are also an international role model in so many areas. And that is to be thanked for.

And it is also a sign that it does not matter who governs. And that we have 220,000 communal apartments, 200,000 of the Vienna-provided rental and community apartments, very often owned by unions, is also a visible sign of this policy. And a few days ago we named a community building after Rudi Hunsdorfer, in the 6th district, as a sign of the connection with a special personality of the social democracy and the trade movement, but also in the 6th district, where there is not much construction land, as a sign that we want to achieve a social and functional mix also in the future.

And that we do not stop at the historical achievements, that we do not rest on our laurels, but that we set further accents. And you can remember, we have established that in the future, with every redevelopment, two thirds of all new apartments must be made available. This does not exist all over the world.

And for this reason, if this were a proposal in other cities, they look disbelieving that this is even possible. And for this reason, Amin Tournherr rightly wrote in the Falter, the city of Vienna is the capital of democratic socialism. I liked this accusation, because it is a policy for the people, and that is also good.

And for this reason, dear comrades, and for this reason, I will also make a commitment in the future, that we not only preserve this legacy, but also continue to expand it, and that we ensure that there is no sale of community buildings, as is already being proposed by one conservative. This will not happen under a mayor, Michael Ludwig. But it will also be necessary that we have a strong economy.

And I am pleased that the Chamber of Economics has chosen that the Social Democratic Economic Association could strengthen itself. I congratulate you very warmly, and above all, because it is about supporting one-person companies. The Social Democratic Economic Association does not primarily stand for large international corporations, but it primarily stands for one-person companies, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our economy in the city.

And for this reason, it was also a nice success, and also shows how important it is to take care of the weak entrepreneurs and companies. Just as Otto Bauer has always seen it, there is a combination of workers, small farmers, which we also have in Vienna, but above all small entrepreneurs and companies, who often have it even harder than some workers. And we must also live these alliances in the future, dear comrades.

Therefore, we now have great challenges, especially in the budget area. It is not a secret, it is written in the newspaper every day. Yesterday I also spoke to Comrade Martha Bauer on the phone.

He asked me to go on this journey of consolidation together. We do that too. In principle, we are a very loyal state organization.

But I say, you have to see that the relationship between the federal, state and municipal governments in financing is such that more and more tasks have been taken over by states and municipalities. And when I read in the newspaper articles that the federal government has overcome its budgetary challenges, but the states are still tenacious, then you have to pay attention to this inequality. Therefore, in the next few days and weeks, we will certainly show solidarity, friendship, but still very determined interest in Vienna.

Because the federal government has set very one-sided percentages, which are to be adhered to, also in the consolidation of the budget, where the countries, including us in Vienna, have strong concerns. And we will also bring these concerns in, as I said, in a solidary way, not via the media, but internally, so that we can also represent the interests of the Viennese population well. Because it is not about budget payments, but it has an impact in all areas.

In the health sector, in the social sector, also in investments. And if the states and municipalities are given the opportunity, then it has an impact on the economy, the labor market and on the social framework conditions of the people. And we will certainly discuss this in the next few days and weeks, very friendly, but still.

And that is also our task, that we are active in the sense of the Viennese population. But in principle, it is important that we stand together in difficult times and support this coalition at the federal level. Because what is the alternative? And you know, it was right at the beginning of the year that there is a coalition consisting of the FPÖ and the ÖVP.

It was the first time that there had been a Federal Chancellor of the FPÖ, with Herbert Kickl still a particularly right-wing politician. And I don't want to pretend that I have committed myself very much that there has been another attempt to establish this three-party coalition. Knowing that we have great political difficulties, we have a lot to explain what this federal government has to implement.

And why does it have to implement this? Because the last federal government, consisting of the ÖVP and the Greens, has left us a budget that we have to renovate now. Minister of Finance Brunner at the top, but the Greens are also not to be left out of the responsibility. And if proposals come from these parties, from the Greens, what we should not do, then you have to say, a lot is not possible today because they have left us this budget.

At the federal level, with effects on countries and municipalities. Therefore, the profit margins that we have in a smaller extent because of this budget policy of the last federal government, something that also affects us massively in Vienna. The abolition of the cold progression, which has supported the better-off, alone costs us in Vienna 1 billion euros in the current legislative period.

1 billion euros. I don't have to tell you what you could do with 1 billion euros. Therefore, we have to point out again and again who is also responsible for these challenges that we now have to consolidate the budget.

It is important, and it has been mentioned by Ms. Dr. Springer, that we also need economic growth to stabilize the labor market. Because we have a better situation in employment in Vienna than in other federal states. But unemployment is also increasing for us.

And that is something that also drives me very much. And it is also about how we can take measures against it. Therefore, it must be ensured that we can guarantee affordable housing in the future despite all the consolidation challenges.

Guarantee the best health care, the best education in all areas, from kindergarten through school to the dual training system. That we remain an equal city and that we also remain a social city with all the issues that we still have to deal with. And that is why it will be important that we also strengthen the economy.

However, economy with attitude. That means connecting economy with social justice. We have tools that are not available in other federal states.

Such as the WAF, for example, the Vienna Employment and Employment Support Fund, which together with the AMS Vienna implements a number of support measures that are not available anywhere else. And we have now decided to form further instruments that are there for special groups of people. For example, for women.

Because we have seen that almost half of all women on the labor market only have a compulsory school diploma. But these are women who are often very engaged, but have difficult framework conditions. And we have now set up a women's work foundation.

Previously, we set the budget for 100 women for 1.7 million. And we have now presented the first three women to the media. That was touching.

Two of the three women are single mothers. One was employed in a restaurant as an assistant. Now wants to be trained to be a kindergarten and horticultural assistant.

The other, 44, was active in the trade as an assistant. Wants to become a web designer. And the third, 31 years old, is a Syrian refugee with three children and wants to be trained as an uneducated saleswoman towards a personal accountant.

Great, I can say. We need qualified professionals. And we are the city of women and will bring this to the fore in all areas.

And I am in close contact with the economy to say that there needs to be more full-time jobs. Because I think it's nonsense, how some representatives of the economy, not ours, then say that people are doing so well, they only do reinforced part-time work. Yes, then you have to look at the offer of jobs on the labor market.

Because there are simply many offers that only include part-time jobs. And that affects the women above all. It affects the women in their payment, in their job, but even more so with the effects in retirement.

So we will strongly urge women to find the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they work part-time or full-time. And there is the best care and the best support that we can offer in the education system. It was mentioned, for over 15 years we have introduced the free kindergarten as the only federal state.

Since 2020, the free day school. And these are framework conditions that enable women, also men, but mainly women, to decide whether they are working part-time, and if so, how. So the compatibility of work and family is something very important and we want to continue to promote that.

Dear comrades, we are the youngest federal state. It wasn't always like that.

The youngest federal state, that was not always the case. I can still remember well, until the 1970s we were the oldest state on average, we are now the youngest. That is good, also for demographic development, when the so-called baby boomer generation goes into retirement and there are fewer descendants at the moment, so that we can fill that in accordingly.

And therefore it is important that we make sure that young people get the appropriate training. And this is also true, and I would like to thank the youth organizations, with whom I have often discussed a lot what we can do, regardless of whether it is the EEG, the SIE, the VSSDÖ, but above all the business youth, that we said we need a job offensive. We do that too, and we have now established that we will cover the wage costs for four months.

And the incorporation between WAF, AMS and the Viennese economy, so that we can reach all young people who are unemployed for six months or longer. All of them, so all of them that we can reach, who want to, can be trained in this job offensive. And I think it is a nice signal to young people, we do not leave you alone, and despite all the difficult conditions, which you may have had personally in the past or in the immediate environment, we stand by your side and help you with this job offensive.

And I can only appeal to you that we, even in this difficult phase, and there are now ongoing wage negotiations, that we also support our comrades in the unions. Because it is always easy to write that there should be a responsibility for the state as a whole, that the social partnership should contribute, also the unions contribute. But that is always popular in the media.

If you have to keep it up in your own union, with your own members, it is not that easy, I tell you. And from this point of view, I would really like to ask you all that we stand there very solidarily with the unions. Because there are often discussions about the question whether you can negotiate beyond the inflation rate, i.e. wage and salary negotiations.

But it is also about other framework conditions. And there is now again such an intensively conducted discussion about opening times, especially Sunday openings. And a really good survey has shown that 75% of the total population are against Sunday openings.

90% say it should actually still be a day for the family, for the association, for the togetherness. 80% say, well, what will the saleswomen and salesmen do with the childcare, which is not available on Sundays in most cases. And I had another look at how it turned out at this temporary Sunday opening during the Football European Championship 2008.

Do you remember? You don't know, you are a lot of young people. It was 2008. But those who continue to look back in history know that there was even an explanation from the Trade Union at the time that it did not bring anything financially, economically.

And I can only tell you, even if it is unpopular, I am against Sunday openings. Even if I sometimes hear criticism from the media. Because it is always about the consistent commitment also for the interests of the population.

And we will also need partners in the economy. And not everything is always popular. But it is necessary that we also define the partners in the economy and implement concrete projects with them.

This also applies, for example, to banks and insurances. We have a large part of our urban expansion areas also linked together with banks and insurances. There are also many infrastructural projects, from the Twin City Liner, for example.

But also transport infrastructure in the health sector. The Terme Wien is also such a project. In the cultural sector, the film festival, the tennis tournament, in the sports sector, and many more.

I just want to emphasize that we have to say what our interests are and what will be necessary, especially in this budgetary situation, to find funding sources together that are also good for the people in our city. And I am convinced that we will succeed by developing new forms of financing for future projects. Because we also want to move on to the big requirements we have.

For example, on the subject of climate protection. And we made a really big leap a few days ago. We bought a large company in the field of wind power and solar technology.

I can't say for sure, but it's an amount I've already swallowed. This is not at the expense of the owners of the energy, but is drawn from the stock of the energy companies. But it is certain that we will be able to invest more in the field of alternative energy forms in the future.

And with this decision, we are the largest solar provider in Austria. We are the third largest provider in the field of wind power. And we can ensure that our climate protection program, which has been around since 1999, so there was still a long way to go for the Greens to be in the city government at some point.

Since then, we have been implementing the climate protection program in Vienna. And we have half of the CO2 emissions per capita. And when it comes to energy, we have a very strong decline.

We have made it so that the decline in energy is so strong that we have the same energy use as in 1993. So you can clearly see that our climate protection program also works. And that we ensure with greenhouse gas that we get rid of the dependence on international energy supplies.

And if you now say, what exactly do we get out of it? What does it bring when we invest in this area? Then you can tell him that we are independent of fossil fuels. Prices will drop in the medium term. And we have greater planning security for the economy, but also for households.

And that will be very, very important and will justify such investments. But it is also necessary that we invent corresponding forms of financing. And on the question of a journalist, whether we reduce our measures in climate protection due to the budgetary situation, I could calmly say no.

And if you look at what is currently happening at the International Climate Conference, how more and more countries are partially withdrawing or revising their specifications, we can say that in Vienna we are consistently going the way without harming the economy, but on the contrary, strengthening the economy and making investments in the area of the economic location of Vienna. And that is important, this connection between economy and climate protection. And how do we explain many of these things in public? It will be necessary that there will also be media in the future.

And I don't need to tell you anything about the media in Austria and not every article that appears will find my approval. It will probably be the same for you in a similar way. Only if you look at what is going on in the so-called social media, where unfiltered, simply fake news, false reports, are pouring into people.

What impact that has when you discuss things with people who constantly think about things where you think it is unbelievable that such conspiracy theories are even credible. Nevertheless, they reach parts of the population. Then we will have to say, media in Austria need us and they need our support.

They are part of a democratic process and not everything that we like should be missing. It is important for a democracy that there are different points of view and that it can be discussed. And if the traditional media disappear, then there will be more influence from other countries on social media.

We already see this in election campaigns in European countries, such as Russia, which has tried to influence election results with chatbots. Not that traditional media would not do that, but it is more transparent, more understandable and part of a democratic process. That is why we created the Media Initiative in Vienna to strengthen the quality of the media, especially to strengthen journalists who do this work.

In the last 20 years, a total of 2,000 journalists have lost their jobs. In the last 20 years, 2,000 journalists less. That is why it will be necessary for us to continue this Media Initiative.

I have also suggested that we use this Media Initiative for 600,000 Euro to make sure that more women are anchored in the world of media. That there is a women's bonus of 5,000 Euro, that these functions are strengthened and supported, and that, in particular, journalistic work is financially supported. In a situation where the media need us a lot, we need to make sure that we want to support high-quality journalism.

I think it is always great when media houses ask us whether we will stick to the women's quota in politics. But I think the media will be well advised to take a look at the women's quota in the leading functions of the media houses. Therefore, I think we will show, and we will also support this with the women's bonus.

Even then, it is clear that we are the city of women. I would like to come to two initiatives that I would like to introduce next week at the Federal Headquarters Conference. Namely, it is about supporting stationary trade and taking measures against online trade that comes from the USA, especially from China and other Southeast Asian countries, where there is a strong price dumping and where, in particular, quality and security suffer greatly from it.

These are platforms where companies no longer appear as dealers, but as mediators, and where buyers become importers. They deal with many legal framework conditions, also by splitting the broadcasts, so that they stay below the limits, with partial deliveries to save the customs fees, and so that there are unpaid live broadcasts. I would also like to propose a package delivery to get this under control, because we have to focus on supporting stationary trade.

There are many jobs, well-qualified jobs. At any opportunity, I always say, even now in advance, before Christmas, I do not buy anything online. I buy all my books in the book store, for example, because there are qualified booksellers there, and booksellers should also exist in the future.

Amazon will not be able to afford that. And there are many other problems associated with this, namely that this lower product quality has an impact on the short lifespan. That means there is more waste, there is a worse quality in circulation, the impact on the environment, for example, by more plastic, by these fast fashion products that are in circulation.

And it will be necessary, especially under economic-political considerations, labor-market-political considerations, but also from the point of view of the environment, to take action against this, to implement more controls in online trade, as a reinforcement for the economic location, for local trade, strengthening of jobs, but also of consumer protection. And I will also bring this into the state leaders' conference next week, of course also with the request that the federal government then meet the corresponding federal regulations. But it is important that we also take care of the Viennese economy, of the jobs in trade.

Dear ... And maybe to another part of the economy that is very underestimated in Vienna, namely the industry. We have a strong value creation in the industry, even with an increasing trend. In Vienna it was plus 1.4 percent in 2024.

In Austria, on average, it was a minus of 5.5 percent. And we always count among the strongest three federal states in the field of industry. We do not only have an industry with smoking locks, as it may still be in the Föst, but we have a special focus in the field of life science, biotechnology, pharmacy.

All major international pharmaceutical companies research or produce in Vienna. Some of these companies, such as Boehringer Ingreim, for example, have invested 1 billion euros. In Meidling, for example, I read in a newspaper, Meidling is currently the power center of Vienna.

Of five party secretaries, four are from Meidling. From this point of view, you can see that there are strong industrial settlements here in Meidling, as well as in other districts, fortunately. Especially where it is important for people, in cancer research, for example, it is important that we have made a big leap in Vienna.

Also in the cooperation between these private companies, the city of Vienna, scientific institutions, universities and, for example, the hospitals of the WIEGEF and the AKH. And that's why these companies settle in with us very gladly. But what we need in general, not only in Austria, but in Europe, is that we are very strong in the field of pharmaceutical production, make ourselves independent of international supply chains.

And we saw that with Corona, how difficult it is. We saw that again recently, in relation to drugs that were not available, also very important drugs. And that's why it's important that we, on the one hand, strengthen basic research, but also accelerate the approval process.

In Austria, we only have limited options. That has to happen on a European level, but that we also accelerate approval, also in competition with other parts of the world. In the USA, things are going much faster.

And that is also a decision of pharmaceutical companies to settle here. And that we also set initiatives in the field of training to train corresponding employees, colleagues, and colleagues And that is the strength of our city, that we act in a social partnership and that we especially include the scientific university institutions. We are the second largest city in the German-speaking area.

We are, however, the most important university city with 200,000 students. That means 10% of the total population of Vienna are students. And that's why it's important for these companies, just like our dual training system.

That's why it's important that we also have the over-the-counter educational institutions, but also make sure that private companies train more. Because that's why there are so many young people in the over-the-counter educational institutions, because fewer and fewer companies offer qualified teaching positions. So we have to stick together.

We in Vienna, in the city of Vienna, have taken over the responsibility. We have increased the proportion of students in all professions that we offer as the city of Vienna. And we will continue to do so.

Dear comrades, I am already coming to the end. And I can only assure you that we are in this difficult phase, I have mentioned it several times, and the consolidation of the budget is a difficult phase, that we are standing together there. You always have to look ahead.

What is the alternative? And when I hear some in the party say, well, we shouldn't have entered the federal government, then I can only say, then it is automatically a yes to a federal chancellor. You just have to know that. And I think I can convey well that I am interested in historical processes.

And I tell you, in the First Republic, in the First Republic, democracy was not triggered by the fact that the parliament was stormed. That was only the final point. The beginning was the financial elevation of the cities, the financial elevation of the Red Vienna.

That was the beginning. That was the beginning. And we should never get into this situation.

We must always be independent of the influences of other regional bodies, other parties. Because I know that nothing would interest the other parties more than a political change in the Red Vienna. And I always say Red Vienna, because we have already had three coalitions in the Second Republic, but in reality it has always been the Red Vienna.

And that other cities are oriented towards Vienna is connected to the fact that we have such a long, unbroken tradition. And that's why, dear comrades, that's why, dear comrades, let's stick to the counter-model, let's stick to the counter-model for de-solidarity, against privatization, against anti-Semitism and racism, against hatred. Let's stick to this counter-model and we will do it together, dear comrades, at most I know.

Warm friendship, warm congratulations. Thank you very much, Mayor Dr. Michael Ludwig. That's your applause.

Together we can do it.

